### Challenges and Mental Health Resources

The PhD experience can be very challenging—and in unexpected ways. It is common to experience mental health challenges during grad school. While I’m not personally trained to help directly, I hope to be supportive in whatever ways my advisees feel will be helpful, including of course helping them avoid such issues wherever I can. I have met very few individuals that have not struggled with anxiety and other mental issues during their PhD. There are many reasons for that, in my opinion, mostly due to the combination of uncertainty, self-responsibility, and relentless feedback one receives as a PhD student. It is possible that you will experience some anxiety during your PhD, most likely during your 2-3rd year where your self-expectations are high, and feedback in the form of recognized success or established dissertation direction are still often somewhat elusive. This feeling is common, and many PhD students will experience it at some point or another. Don’t be alarmed; come to talk to me (or others) if you feel that way. 

The environment in academia, including at Cornell and Cornell Tech, will not stop you from overworking at the cost of your well-being. Quite the opposite, you will often feel like academic work culture encourages working evenings and weekends, and many do (I sometimes do). In our group, we actually care about your health and well-being and when we say take care of yourself, we mean it. Overworking is neither healthy nor productive in the long run as a PhD is a marathon, not a sprint. When you feel uneasy, don’t run faster, but keep good company. After all, the point of a PhD program is that you don’t need to run it all alone. 

If you or someone you know is feeling overwhelmed, depressed, and/or in need of support, services are available at Cornell and Cornell Tech to support you. These services range from a student services team member available to discuss your challenges, to professional outside services offered through your student health insurance. You can find more details on the [Cornell Tech](https://studentservices.tech.cornell.edu/health-wellness/nyc-health-resources/) and [Cornell](https://health.cornell.edu/services/mental-health-care) websites. 

### Internships

I strongly encourage my students to take internships, though not necessarily every year. There are three main reasons to do internships . First, they pay well; grad school does not. Second, they can advance your research by giving you skills, access, or points of view that you would otherwise not have in your research. Third, it would be useful for you to know what industry looks like. At some point you will find yourself choosing between academia and industry; without having had a few internships, it’s hard to really know what industry is like.

You could do an internship any given summer, and I am flexible with students about when and where they take them. You and I will discuss whether it's a good idea for you to seek an internship as each summer approaches, and what kind of internships you may want to seek (or accept). For example, you are more likely to get research internship offers after your 3rd or 4th year, those are usually recommended though the alignment to your own research and your progress will also play a role. You are more likely to get "practical" (engineering, user research) internships after your 1st or 2nd year. Those are less useful for your PhD (though they will still get you that good money!) and I would sometimes recommend that you spend the summer advancing your research instead.

I usually have research assistantship support for students who are interested in sticking around for the summer.  In fact, I don't remember a single case when a student wanted to stay for summer and could not be supported.

Students in our area often look for internships at: MSR, Microsoft, Google, Facebook, Twitter, Airbnb, Reddit, Twitch, Instagram, etc. Emerging startups can also be exciting opportunities; they generally require more work to seek out, and you will probably have a more varied role when you get there. Within these companies, there are a wide spectrum of intern roles—from pure research to pure development. You will likely prefer the former over the latter (the former can lead to papers; though that is often not incentivized within companies). While it varies by place, students tend to line up internships as early as October before the summer they intern, though that process can and does go into March. Again, it varies by company and stage in the program. If there is a certain place you’d like to intern, ask me: I may know someone there and can make an introduction.

Since the work in the lab is highly multidisciplinary, your intern positions may also vary based on your expertise, from technical work with algorithms to user research with actual individuals. It's all good.

During your internship, I will mostly leave you alone. I want you to experience industry, and it’s hard to do with me hanging around. Also, don’t feel like you need to bring me on to a project with you. I will sometimes join an intern project in an advisory capacity if all interests align (you, me, and the company's). However, it is not uncommon for you to have some work lingering from your PhD that needs to be done during your internship: for example, a paper with a revise-and-resubmit deadline, or data collection that cannot be stopped.
